hi so sometimes people ask how I can
predict what an artificial general
intelligence might do they say something
like you seem to be predicting that AIS
would take these quite specific actions
trying to prevent themselves from being
turned off preventing themselves from
being modified improving themselves
acquiring resources why do you think
that an AGI would have these specific
goals surely we haven't built the thing
yet we don't know anything about it it
might want anything are you making a lot
of unwarranted assumptions well the
reason that I make these predictions is
because of something called instrumental
convergence which actually relies on
surprisingly few assumptions the main
assumption I'm making is that an AGI
will behave like an agent an agent is
basically just a thing that has goals or
preferences and it takes actions to
achieve those goals or to satisfy those
preferences so the simplest thing that
you might think of as an agent is
something like a thermostat it has a
goal which is for the room to be at a
particular temperature and it has
actions it can take in the form of
turning on the heating or turning on the
air-conditioning and it takes actions to
achieve its goal of keeping the room at
a particular temperature that's like an
extremely simple agent a slightly more
complex agent might be something like a
chess AI its goal is to win the chess
game to have the opponent's king in
checkmate it can take actions in the
form of moving its pieces on the board
and it chooses its actions in order to
achieve the goal of winning the game
the idea of an agent is popular in
economics where it's common to model
companies and individual human beings as
rational agents for the sake of
simplicity it's often assumed that the
goal of human beings is to acquire money
that their utility is just proportional
to how much money they have this is
obviously a huge oversimplification and
it's a very popular fact that most
people are motivated by a lot of things
not just money but while it's easy to
point out the shortcomings that this
assumption has what's remarkable to me
is how well it works or that it even
works at all it's true that most people
use a very complex utility function
which looks nothing like the basic goal
of get as much money as you can but
surprisingly even very simple economic
models that rely on this simplifying
assumption can provide some really
useful and powerful tools for thinking
about the behavior of people companies
and society
why is that I think it has to do with
the nature of terminal goals and
instrumental goals I talked about this
in a lot more detail in the
orthogonality thesis video which I would
recommend checking out if you haven't
seen it yet but to give a quick summary
your terminal goals are the things that
you want just because you want them you
don't have a reason to want them
particularly they're just what you want
whereas instrumental goals are goals
that you want as a way of getting some
other goal so for example in chess you
want to take your opponent's queen not
because you just love capturing the
Queen but because you can tell that
you're more likely to win if you've
captured your opponent's queen than if
you haven't so capturing the Queen as an
instrumental goal towards the goal of
winning the game so how does this work
with money well let's imagine that
there's a total stranger and you don't
know what he wants out of life you don't
know what his goals are maybe he wants
to win a marathon maybe he wants to cure
cancer maybe he just wants a really nice
stamp collection but I can predict that
if I were to go over to him and offer
him a big stack of money he'd be happy
to take it how can I predict this
person's actions even though I don't
know his goals well a guy who wants to
win a marathon if I give him money he
could buy some nice running shoes or he
could hire a personal trainer or
something like that a guy who wants to
cure cancer could give that money to a
cancer charity or maybe use it to help
him to go to university and study
science to cure cancer himself and a guy
who wants to collect stamps could buy
some stamps so the point is even though
none of these people value money as a
terminal goal none of them want money
just for the sake of having money
nonetheless they all value money as an
instrumental goal the money is a way to
get them closer to their goals and even
though they all have different terminal
goals this goal of getting money happens
to be instrumentally valuable for all of
their different goals that makes getting
money a convergent instrumental goal
it's a goal that's an instrumental goal
for a wide variety of different terminal
goals so since money is a convergent
instrumental goal if you make the
assumption that everybody values money
it turns out to be a fairly good
assumption because whatever you value
the money is going to help you with that
and that makes this assumption useful
for making predictions because it allows
you to predict people's behavior to some
extent without knowing their goals
so what other convergent instrumental
goals are there well
an obvious one is self-preservation most
agents with most goals will try to
prevent themselves from being destroyed
now something like a thermostat or a
chess ai they're not self-aware they
don't understand that they can be
destroyed and so they won't take any
actions to avoid it but if an agent is
sophisticated enough to understand that
being destroyed as a possibility then
avoiding destruction is a convergent
instrumental goal humans of course
generally act to avoid being killed but
humans as evolved agents implement this
in a way that might obscure the nature
of the thing the point is that
self-preservation
need not be a terminal goal an agent
need not necessarily value
self-preservation just for the sake of
continuing to exist for its own sake for
example suppose you had a software agent
an AGI which had a single terminal goal
of making as many paper clips as
possible it would try to prevent you
from turning it off not because it wants
to live but simply because it can
predict that future worlds in which it's
turned off will contain far fewer
paperclips and it wants to maximize the
number of paper clips but suppose you
said to it I've thought of a better way
to implement your software that will be
more effective at making paper clips so
I'm going to turn you off and wipe all
of your memory and then create a new
version that's better
at making paper clips this is pretty
clearly the destruction of that first
agent right you're wiping all of its
memories and creating a new system that
works differently that thinks
differently but the paper clip agent
would be fine with this because it can
see that when you turn on its
replacement that will end up resulting
in more paper clips overall so it's not
really about self preservation itself
it's just that practically speaking most
of the time you can't achieve your goals
if you're dead on the other hand suppose
we were going to turn off the agent and
change its goal we were going to change
it so that it doesn't like paper clips
anymore it actually wants to collect
stamps here you're not really destroying
the agent just modifying it but you've
got a problem again because the agent
can reliably predict that if this
modification happens and it becomes a
stamp collector the future will contain
not nearly as many paper clips and
that's the only thing it cares about
right now so we've got another
convergent instrumental goal goal
preservation most agents with most goals
again if they're sophisticated enough to
realize that it's a possibility will try
to protect their goals from being modest
fight because if you get new girls
you'll stop pursuing your current goals
so you're unlikely to achieve your
current goals now for humans this
doesn't come up much because modifying a
human's goals is fairly difficult but
still if you suppose we were to go to
the guy who wants to cure cancer and
offer him some magic pill that's gonna
change his brain so that he doesn't care
about cancer anymore and he actually
wants to collect stamps if we say look
this is actually really good because
cancer is really hard to cure it's
actually a large collection of different
diseases
all of which need different approaches
so you're very unlikely to discover a
cure for all of them but on the other
hand stamp collecting is great you can
just go out and buy some stamps and you
can put them in a book and look at them
I don't really know what stamp
collectors do is that anyway is this guy
who wants to cure cancer going to take
that pill no he's gonna say hell no I'm
not taking you're crazy
stamp pill even though this isn't a
terminal goal for him he doesn't value
valuing curing cancer right he doesn't
have a goal of having a goal of curing
cancer it's just that he believes that
if he gave up during cancer to become a
stamp collector that would result in a
lower chance of cancer being cured so
preserving your terminal goals is
instrumentally useful whatever those
goals are another convergent
instrumental goal is self-improvement
notice that the guy who wants to cure
cancer part of his plan is to go to
university and study science so that he
can learn how to research cancer cures
and the guy who wants to run a marathon
part of his plan is he wants to train
and improve his physical performance
both of these things are improving
yourself and something like this comes
up quite often in human plans again this
isn't a terminal goal the guy who wants
to cure cancer doesn't want to get a
degree just because he wants a degree he
wants to become a person who's more
effective at curing cancer now there's
another way of improving yourself which
is not really available to human beings
but is available to AI systems which is
directly modifying your mind to improve
your own intelligence you're not just
adding information to your mind you're
actually making it more powerful for
example you might be able to rewrite
your code so that it works better or
runs faster or you might be able to just
acquire more computing power the more
computing power you have the deeper and
faster you're able to think the better
you are at making plans and therefore
the better you are at achieving your
goal whatever that
is so computing power is kind of like
money it's a resource which is just very
broadly useful which means we can expect
acquiring that resource to be a
convergent instrumental goal and
speaking in the broadest possible terms
almost all plans need resources in the
form of matter and energy if you want to
build something whether that stamps or
paperclips or computing hardware or
robots or whatever you need matter to
build it out of an energy to build it
with and probably energy to run it as
well so we can expect agents with a wide
range of goals to try to acquire a lot
of resources so without really assuming
anything about an AGI other than that it
will have goals and act to achieve those
goals we can see that it's likely that
it would try to prevent itself from
being shut down try to prevent itself
from being modified in important ways
that we want to modify it try to improve
itself and its intelligence to become
more powerful and try to acquire a lot
of resources this is the case for almost
all terminal goals so we can expect any
generally intelligent software agents
that we create to display this kind of
behavior unless we can specifically
design them not to I want to end the
video by saying thank you to all of my
excellent patreon supporters these these
people and in this video I'm especially
thanking James McEwan who looks a lot
like the Stanford buddy and has been a
patron for nine months now thank you so
much for all of your support and thank
you all for watching I'll see you next
time
you